To compile Orange, you need Python 2.2 or later. You don't
need Python sources, except for the header and library files
that come with the basic distribution anyway.

This file does not cover building the C4.5 plugin.
See doc/reference/C45Learner.htm for instructions.

You don't need C4.5 sources to build Orange on Linux and
Mac OS X (as was the case with previous versions of Orange).

Please report any problems to janez.demsar@fri.uni-lj.si.


Compiling instructions for MSVC 6.0
-----------------------------------

Although the provided project files are for MS VC 6.0, Orange
can (in principle; we are not regularly checking it) also be
compiled by MS VC .Net - just let it import and convert the files.

1.  Set the environment variable PYTHON to Python's root (e.g.
    c:\python23). This is used for finding include files and libraries.

2.  The workspace file is in subdirectory source. Open it and
    compile. Note that if you want to compile a debug version of
    Orange, you'll need to have the debug version of Python as
    well (python23_d.lib, python23_d.dll etc). See file
    debugging_orange.txt if you need a hint on that.

3.  Make sure that Python will find the compiled modules. You can set
    the PYTHONPATH, create an appropriate orange.pth file in Python's
    directory site-packages, create a corresponding registry key or
    simply copy the files to Python's lib directory.


Compiling instructions for Linux
--------------------------------

To compile orange, you'll need a newer gcc (version 3.2 works;
we are not sure about older compilers).

1.  Run make (Makefile is in subdirectory source).

    If gcc complains that it cannot find Python.h, find it
    yourself and manually correct the PYTHONDIR in Makefile.
    
    Warnings are disabled to avoid thousands of warnings
    about invalid offsetof from non-POD type. (These didn't
    occur in earlier versions of gcc; we might try to do something
    about it.) If you like warnings, edit the Makefile to
    enable them.

2.  To let Python know where to find Orange, you should either
    add the path to PYTHONPATH or create a file orange.pth in
    Python's directory site-packages. Running 'make install'
    will tell you the paths you need.
    

Compiling instructions for Mac OS X
-----------------------------------

Mac OS X comes without gcc but you get it with Xcode. You can
install Xcode from your Mac OS X installation disk or from:

  http://developer.apple.com/technology/xcode.html

After having it installed and Orange source code downloaded:

1. Uncompress the archive.
2. Go to the uncompressed directory and run 'make' after which
   you will get compiled modules in a parent directory.
3. You can move those modules where Python will find them
   (for example where PYTHONPATH is pointing to).
4. Make sure with 'otool -L' that paths to dynamic libraries
   modules are using are correct. If not, use 'install_name_tool'
   to correct them.
